So subscriptions must be added to your
schema, like queries and mutations.
Like I said, they are sibling types.
So you would make a type for
subscriptions,
which is a name that
graphQL is looking for.
Do not rename that as something else
until graphQL bought it just call it
subscriptions.
You need to set up a pub
sub protocol server side.
So Pub Sub, if you're not familiar
with that publish subscribe.
Basically a protocol where you can
like publish to like a channel.
And you can subscribe to
that channel to receive
whatever you're publishing usually events.
So people use like, things like Redis for
this or in our example,
probably something like in memory.
But it's just a place where
you can publish events and
eventually subscribe to those events.
So you had a separate protocol for
that server side.
Whatever implementation is,
and then you have to create
the subscription event resolvers you
have to create resolvers, just so
subscription is a type type definition.
And it has fields just like
a mutation and queries do.
You have to make resolvers for
those fields, those fields needs to
know what events are they listening for.
So you have to make those resolvers for
every single field on a subscription that
you create otherwise it
wouldn't know what to do.
And then you need to add any
needed authentication in context.
So authenticating what subscriptions
is gonna be completely different
than authenticating
with non subscriptions.
So we need to address that and
handle that.
And make sure that you're good to go.
Otherwise people can just, I don't know,
subscribe to your GraphQL API and
not be authenticated, authorized.
So if you have authentication
authorization,
you got to make sure
you set that stuff up.
And then, of course,
there's a client site setup.
So if you have a React app or Vue app,
it's just, you can't, you have to add some stuff.
So what Apollo client there's, you have to
add a transport protocol usually like web
sockets or it could be polling. Whatever
you want, but you have to set it up there.
And then usually an application if
you're subscribing to something,
you probably kick off that subscription
early on an application, like maybe in
a layout file somewhere that's always
active and it's always watching.
So when you change routes,
that subscription is still watching and
maintaining the state.
You kick that off before
anything else happens.
It really depends on your use case.
So you want to make sure you set all
that up to actually take advantage of
subscriptions.
Otherwise, why do you have subscriptions?
So this is all you need
to set up subscriptions.
And now I'm going to walk
through how to do it.
So you can follow along.
But if not, don't worry, you're going to
be making it on your own right after this.
So first thing is, according to this is we
need to add subscriptions to our schema
like queries and mutations.
So I'm going to go down here to our type
definitions and my demo file that I have.
And I'm at a subscription type.
And for this example, we don't really
have anything that's meaningful for
subscription.
So I'll make a new type,
and I'll call it item.
An item just has a task
which is a string Like that.
And then what we can do
is we can say we want to
subscribe to whenever a new type is or
new item is created.
So we can say new item.
We can call this Phil whatever we want,
because it's follows the same rules as
any other field than any other type.
And then it's going to return and
item type like that.
And then I just need to make a mutation.
So when we actually create a type,
we can actually create a type
which will cause a subscription.
So I'll just say, create item that
takes in a task which is a string.
Like that, that's required.
And it's just going to return an item,
cool.
So the next thing we need to do is,
set up pub up protocols.
Luckily for us, we get that for
free with Apollo server,
with this pub sub constructor here.
And a pub sub implementation is
basically a publish subscribe.
Protocol, the pups of thing that they have
here is following an interface that you
can override and
extend with your own capabilities.
If you want to use Redis or
any other pops up invitation,
you can do it or
we're going to use theirs for free.
So we'll make a new instance of that and
we'll call it plug.
So equals a new pops up.
And then from there, what we need to do is
we need to create subscription events and
the resolvers.
So, for our subscription newItem field
we need to make a resolver for it.
And the way we can do that, is if we
go down to our resolvers objects and
sibling of mutation and query, will make
one for subscription and for the newItem.
Unlike all the other resolvers
that you we would right where
the resolver is a function
that returns something, for
subscriptions because there's
going to be other options here.
Yeah, they haven't objects,
in the resolver that you want to write,
it's going to be for
subscribing to something.
So we need to tell the new items
subscription, what we're subscribing to.
So in this case,
we're gonna return a function from the
subscribe method on the new item field.
And we're gonna use that pub sub,and
we are going do something called
an a sync iterator.
What a key words and
async iterator is in JavaScript basically,
an iterator that allows you
to iterate asynchronously.
So you can wait for
one thing to process asynchronously
before you go to the next one.
And this takes either an array of
interested triggers that you're
interested in or just one and it triggers
basically you get together as an event.
So what we'll do is we'll make an event
on top here and I'm gonna call this event
a new item event like this,
but the same name.
So we got a new item and basically,
what I'm saying is the new item
subscription is subscribing to any
event by the name of new item.
So we got that part, and
the next part we need to do
is add the actual trigger
when a new item is created.
So we need to go to our mutations,
and create a mutations for
when we create an item so
create an item mutation here.
Do that, there's no route arc here.
I know it takes in arguments of a task,
which will be a string, so I'll get that.
And then what I can do is I can just say,
right now
I'm just going to return an object that
represents an item that has a task on it.
And but before I do that,
what I want to do is I want to publish to
our subscription using the same event.
So I can say pubsub dot publish.
That's going to take a trigger,
in this case, the new items.
That's what subscribing to.
And because subscriptions are only
interested in sending and
notifying about events.
We have to pass the actual data,
the payload that we want
the subscription to have access to
when we create inside of our client.
So it has to match exactly what
the subscription is referencing.
So in this case, an object with a new
item field that is an item type.
So that's what we'll do.
So we'll say, new item.
Field with a, item type.
So let me just make this
available real quick.
That, they send an item like that and
then we'll just return the item, cool.
So we got that stuff setup says here,
we also need to add any authentication and
context.
And this example there's
no authentication, but for
context, it's very, very similar
to what you would normally do.
So you have your context object or
a context method on the server instance.
And you're gonna get an objects here.
Normally, we will use
something like the requests,
like we did an authentication section, but
it's also gonna be something
here called connection.
So if we're using the incoming
request is a Subscription
is gonna have a connection property.
And if there is a connection,
then we wanna handle the context
creation a little differently.
Because the connection is gonna have
something on it's called context.
So we can get the connection context and
pass that around and handle that a little
differently than we would non
subscription context for authentication.
Because we don't have any in this case,
you would just use the subscriptions field
on this Apollo instance this
arguments here, which is an object.
And there's a hook for on Connect.
On Connect takes a few arguments with
the first one that you're going to be
interested in are going to be params.
Or you might see them refer
to this connection params,
you can think of these as headers.
So if you were to use something like
req.header or leave the request
object up here and you were looking
at the headers to get the auth token.
You could think of these params
as headers for your subscription.
So whatever you pass up on the headers and
GraphQL playground is going to be
attached to this params object here.
So whatever authentication
logic you do in the context for
a non subscription based request,
you can pretty safely do the same thing
in the onConnect subscriptions,
using the params instead of req.headers.
So we got the context set up,
we got the params, we got our pubSub.
And from here, it's client side setup.
We don't have an app right now, but
Playground does support
Subscriptions luckily for us.
So all we have to do is just,
for me I am going to start
this node server up on 4000.
I'm going to go to that
URL and get rid of this stuff.
So refresh, and let's run a subscription.
So first thing is, use the subscription
keyword which is normally where you would
put query or mutation or
just description one.
Now, we're going to use a new item.
Item is an object type.
So we need a sub selection.
So I'm going to say it only has a task,
I believe, but then I'm gonna hit play.
You notice, nothing happening.
It's not that the service taking
forever and it's hanging.
No, it's listening for
any subscriptions to come in.
So now, we need to actually add some
new items that we can see this being
published.
We can't do this in a new tab
in GraphQL playground.
Once you have a subscription here,
the connection is being taken from that.
So we have to add a new browser tab.
Go here.
And in this case,
we'll just go ahead and make a new task.
So we'll make a, My 'A' key
is so busted, so mutation.
And we'll say new or I think it's called
create item actually which takes the task.
And we can say this is my task,
and I'll get the task back.
So once I publish that, I get my task
back just like it would in a mutation.
But then if I go back to this description,
you'll see that it showed
up here on the right.
And if I do another one,
That other one also shows up here.
And that's basically
how subscriptions work.